Okay, welcome back to Gary's Economics.
This week we are going to answer the
question, are Labor unlucky or are they
just rubbish?
Okay, so this week is Labor Conference.
Uh Labour for anyone who is not in the
country are the traditional center-left
party of the UK. They are in government.
They won an election last year. So, just
before the election last year, I did a
video saying that Labour would win a
massive landslide and then become
incredibly unpopular very quickly, which
is exactly what has happened. Um, a lot
of polls show it's the biggest and
fastest ever fall in popularity for any
new government in the country. And this
has led to the question of why are Labor
perceived to have been doing so badly?
Why are Labor so unpopular so quickly?
and a narrative is kind of forming from
Labour or people supported from Labor
which is basically that Labour are
unlucky. Today we're going to ask the
question whether that is true. I think
it's a really really interesting
question because I think it is actually
true that Labour are unlucky but
completely not for the reasons that they
think they're unlucky or that they say
they're unlucky. Okay. So what is the
Labor argument? The classic Labor
argument is basically that they are
unlucky because they inherited an
extremely bad financial situation from
the Conservatives and that is true.
Government debt is very high. Inequality
increased massively during COVID. In
fact, the reason that I started this
channel at the beginning of 2020 was
because I was predicting that the
economy would collapse, that government
finances would collapse, that we would
have a massive cost of living crisis.
The fact that government finances were
so bad was basically exactly the reason
I was able to predict that Labor would
be really unpopular really quickly.
Basically, if you go back and look at my
video, maybe we'll link it here from
before the election. What I basically
said was um we are in the midst of an
economic crisis that is being caused by
economic mismanagement. Inequality has
increased massively. The assets are
increasingly owned by the rich. um if
you don't tax the rich, living standards
will keep falling. And this is why why
basically we could predict very easily
that that labor would become very
unpopular for this very simple reason.
Living standards were falling because of
rising inequality. Labor wasn't going to
take action on inequality. For that
reason, living standards would keep
falling, which would mean Labor would be
very unpopular very quickly. And this is
basically the argument which Labor
politicians have been making. Um, I was
watching Sky News this morning as I make
my breakfast as I do and there was a
labor adviser there saying, you know,
this is not really our fault. There was
no way of us knowing this would happen.
Um, we didn't know, for example, that
Trump would would bring his tariffs in.
We didn't know these things would happen
and um, we were left a really bad legacy
by the Conservatives and this is not
really our fault. And what this reminded
me of was a speech given by Jeremy Hunt
two and a half years ago. Um Jeremy Hunt
was a conservative chancellor. So
different um different prime minister, a
different government where at the time
people were very unhappy because living
stands were falling, the economy was
weak. And what Jeremy Hunt said was we
know that living standards are falling
and the economy is weak. But it's not
our fault because there have been a
series of of black swan events. And what
a black swan event is um is just
something very unfortunate and very rare
has happened. Black swans are rare. So a
black swan event is a rare event. Um,
and I did a video on this idea cuz I
found it really really interesting
because when Jeremy Hunt said that at
that time I had been saying very
consistently for for three three and a
half years that living standards would
fall, that we'd have a cost of living
crisis, that we'd have an inflation
crisis. I was explaining exactly why.
Um, I was betting on it. I was making a
lot of money on it. So, it's kind of
interesting and kind of funny for me to
see Jeremy Hunt come in and say, "Oh my
god, the economy is collapsing. Aren't
we terribly unlucky? Who could possibly
have predicted this? And now here we are
2 and 1/2 years later with a Labor
government who are in power that have
failed on the economy in the exact
precise exact specific way that I
predicted that they would fail one year
ago, 2 years ago, four years ago, 5
years ago, and they are now saying the
same thing, which is, "Oh my god, aren't
we terribly unlucky? How could we ever
have predicted this?" So let's be clear.
Was this um avoidable in one sense? No.
Which is the sense that I predicted this
these living stands would collapse five
six years ago. Well, 5 years ago, the
beginning of COVID, at the beginning of
COVID, we knew that we were going to
significantly increase wealth inequality
in this country, in your country,
wherever you are, across the world. We
knew that government finances would
collapse. We knew that the rich would
get much richer. Really, it's it's not
rocket science, right? If you massively
change the wealth distribution in your
country, if you massively impoverish the
government and you massively increase
the wealth of the rich, that will affect
living standards in a predictable way.
Uh your government will be poorer, your
government services will get worse, the
rich will get richer, their living
standards will increase and ordinary
people will get less. This is like
really really really really obvious. So
in that sense, what is happening now has
been obvious ever since the beginning of
COVID. Was it avoidable? 100% yes. Uh
there's this really frustrating way that
people talk about government finances
and government debt as if this is just
like money which has just disappeared
and and we can never get it back and
like God has it now. We've sinned. We
can never get it back. That money which
the government gave out is sitting now
in the bank accounts of the richest
people in the country and the richest
people in the world. What I said, you
can go back and watch it in the
beginning of my video, was if you want
to avoid a cost of living crisis, a
massive economic catastrophe, and
massive decreases in living standards,
you need to start working now to fix
your tax system so that we, the people
of the country, can reclaim that wealth
back from the rich. If you do not deal
with the problem you have in your tax
system, which is that you're not really
ready or willing or able to tax the
rich, you will have no choice but to
accept decreased living standards. We
said this publicly. Um we got a decent
bit of press even back in 2020. You
know, I wrote in the Guardian. I um I
wrote for a lot of publications. By the
time of last year's election, this
YouTube channel was quite big. And we
and the people that we work with were
lobbying Labour pretty aggressively
saying basically this exact thing which
is if you when you come in if you do not
take action on massively increased
inequality inability to tax the rich you
you will end up in a situation where
basically you have no choice but to
either slash the state or try and tax
the middle class which is exactly where
the government are now. So was it
fixable? Yes. If they had listened to us
could they fixed it? Yes. So are they
unlucky? No. Was it predictable? Yes.
Could something have been done? Yes. Are
Labour unlucky? No. Uh, I've been
screaming about this for five or six
years. Something could have been done.
Something hasn't been done. Labour
should have been thinking about it when
they're in opposition. Labour should
have been thinking about it before the
election. They didn't. That is why
they're failing now. It's not bad luck.
It is incompetence.
But the truth is actually much more
interesting than that in my opinion
which is once you look at things once
you take a bit of a step back and start
looking at things on a grander scale
there is another way in which Labour
actually have been unlucky and what has
happened is not Labour's fault and that
is the fact that this mistake which has
been made by Labor which is neglecting
to look at the wealth distribution to
think about changes in the wealth
distribution to worry about changes in
who owns the assets is not at all a
mistake which is unique to Labor. I
didn't just predict that Labour would be
unpopular. I also predicted that Rishi
Sunnak would be unpopular. And I
predicted Rishi Sunnak would be
unpopular for the exact same reason that
I predicted Labour and Kistan would be
unpopular. So what you have here is two
political parties opposite sides of the
political spectrum making the exact same
mistake. And I did a video earlier this
year, it might have been back end of
last year, where I explained that Labor
and Donald Trump would both fail again
for the exact same reason, which is the
exact same reason, failure to consider
meaningfully the wealth distribution,
changing the wealth distribution,
changes in inequality. So what you have
here is center left Labor, center right
conservatives,
right? I guess you could even call it
farright Donald Trump. But it's not it's
not even just these parties. The
Democrats made the same mistake under
Joe Biden. Macron made the same mistake
in France. The center left and the
center right made the same mistakes in
Germany, in Italy, in Spain, in in
Japan. The government's making the same
mistake. So, so really once you step
back and you realize this mistake which
Labour is making is the same mistake
that the conservatives made is the same
mistake Trump is making is the same
mistake basically every established
traditional political party even new
political parties like Macron's party in
France when you realize these all of
these parties made the same mistake you
have to accept that really what is
happening here is not at all in any way
Labour's fault in particular this is
really quite obviously not a failing and
not a mistake specifically of labor but
really of of the broader western
political class as a whole. And then if
you take a step back even further, it's
even bigger than that because this is
not a case of the politicians failed and
for example the economists were right or
the journalists were right or even the
traders were right. You know, at the
beginning of COVID, because of my
background as an inequality economist, I
was able to recognize very quickly that
that wealth inequality would increase a
lot. And I was able to predict
relatively easily that we would see the
things that we have seen big increase in
asset prices, big inflation crisis, cost
of living crisis. All of these things
were predicted. Uh if you don't believe
it, you can go and watch our first video
on the channel in which all of these
things were predicted. But it wasn't
just the politicians who who didn't
really notice it at the time. Basically,
nobody in the media was speaking about
it. I didn't see almost anyone in
academia speaking about it with maybe a
few exceptions. And even the traders who
who I think I often talk about as maybe
being a little bit better informed, a
little bit more on the ball than the
academics or the politicians. The vast
majority of the traders didn't notice
it. Um I've made a huge amount of money
betting on these things since the
beginning beginning of COVID. That
wouldn't be possible if the traders
knew. So this mistake, this what I'm
going to call naivity about wealth and
naivity about wealth distribution and
inequality, it's not just specific to
Labor. It's basically every established
political party in the Western world.
And it's not even just unique to the
political parties. This is basically a
failure of understanding of pretty much
the entire western ele intellectual
class. What is happening here
economically is not that complicated.
The big picture story is all there.
Government wealth has collapsed. That
wealth has gone to the rich. Um the
wealth of the richest has increased
massively. Um you can see that in the
massive increase in stock prices, the
massive increase in gold prices. The
change in distribution is not that out
to see if you look at it. Nothing really
made it clearer than CO. In COVID, we
had this like unbelievably clear example
of a period where we were obviously
going to pause the economy for a period
of time and massively increase
inequality.
Nothing could have been more obvious
than the fact that that would be
immediately followed by a massive fall
in living standards for most people.
This is this it's not rocket science. If
you massively change the distribution of
wealth, that will be relatively quickly
followed by a change in the distribution
of living standards for relatively
obvious reasons. And I think in my whole
life, I'm 38 now. Um, I've never seen
anything as interesting really or or or
as amazing happen as the discourse or or
perhaps it would be fairer to say the
lack of a discourse around the change in
distribution during COVID. Because if
anybody had taken the time to consider
how will CO change the distribution of
wealth, anyone would have come to the
conclusion that CO will massively
increase inequality of wealth. And yet
nobody had that discussion. So I often
talk about the total amount of of money
given out by the UK government since the
beginning of COVID, which is over a
trillion pounds now, 20,000 per adult.
The US number is over 13 trillion. uh we
knew at the beginning of co these huge
huge huge huge huge amounts of money
were going to be given out which means
that we knew with certainty that
somebody some group in society was going
to accumulate a huge amount of money uh
we knew with certainty that the
distribution of wealth would change that
the distribution of of living standards
would change and yet nobody
not Labour obviously but also not the
conservatives not the Democrats not the
Republicans not the center left party
where you live not the center right
party where you live not the academics
Not the journalists, not the central
bankers, not anybody even asked the
question of where is this enormous
amount of money going to end up? Who is
going to get richer? Who is going to get
poorer? How is that going to affect
living standards? And it was so amazing
that I I would say vges on beautiful.
And what that shows us is very very
clearly this problem is much much bigger
than labor. It is a problem of the whole
western intellectual class. I I've often
used in some of my interviews a metaphor
which I think really captures really
quite well what is happening here which
which is I say we have an economy which
has cancer and we have a group of
doctors who do not believe in cancer and
I think that that really captures really
very nicely what's happening in the
economy because what you do have is a
small group in society really the
problem is really the very rich you know
the top.1% that are rapidly rapidly
rapidly rapidly increasing their wealth
share. They're they're growing and
they're growing and they're growing and
they're growing their wealth and they're
squeezing everybody else's wealth out.
And that has really obvious
consequences. The most obvious
consequence is just that other groups in
society lose their wealth. And what we
are seeing most sharply at the moment is
the loss in government wealth and the
consequence of the loss of government
wealth. But we've also seen loss of
ability of ordinary people to for
example own homes without taking big
mortgages. Uh massive increase in debt
of ordinary families. What you're seeing
is their wealth is increasing. Everybody
else's wealth is decreasing. And that is
really the primary cause of most our
economic problems. But most modern
economists and politicians and and
journalists simply do not think of the
economy in terms of distribution and
inequality. And we'll discuss that more
in this video and in next week's video.
But I want you to think now, what would
it look like if you had an economy
that was being destroyed by growing
inequality and you had a political class
and and an economic class which never
ever considered the distribution,
what you would have is because of that
inequality growing really really
quickly, you would constantly see bad
consequences effects in the economy. um
things like unaffordable housing, things
like unaffordable state services, things
like government austerity, these are all
obvious things that would happen as
inequality increases. But if the
political class and the economic class
wasn't able to recognize that it was
being caused by inequality, what they
would see is we're doing everything
right and yet bad things keep happening
and we don't really understand why.
We think what must be happening is that
we are just really really consistently
unlucky. Bad things keep happening to
the economy. It must be because of the
Trump tariffs or um I think Jeremy Hunt
spoke about the Ukraine Ukraine war or
because of COVID or the aftermath of
2008 or the aftermath of the 2011
sovereign debt crisis.
This is what you would expect to happen
if you
were constantly misdiagnosing the
problem. If you had a patient who had
cancer, but you didn't know cancer
exist, you'd tell them, you know, eat
healthy,
exercise, rest, drink water, and your
patients would keep dying because you
haven't correctly identified the cause.
So, once we zoom out and we recognize
the problem for what it is, which is
that it wasn't really a problem of the
conservative party. Um, it isn't really
a problem of labor. Um, it's not even a
problem of Donald Trump. It is a problem
of a failure to recognize the correct
cause of the problem by the western
intellectual class. That will probably
feel initially a little bit overwhelming
because you know when we had the
conservatives in in this country there
was a big like let's kick the
conservatives out, things will get
better. Um and that that feels
achievable. It feels uh relatively easy.
I mean it was done. The conservatives
lost the election badly. They were
kicked out. They're not in power
anymore. And you know, now we have
Labor, they're unpopular. If the problem
is Labor, we kick Labor out. We're going
to fix the problem. If the problem was
isolated to one specific political
party, it would be relatively easy to
solve by kicking that political party
out. If the problem is a failure of the
entire Western intellectual class to
correctly identify what is causing
falling living standards, that feels a
lot bigger and that feels a lot scarier
and it feels a lot less easy to resolve.
But actually in many ways it is a
massive massive source of opportunity
because
I think it is become increasingly clear
that in many ways and in many countries
across the world the public is starting
to recognize this fact which is that the
problem is really a broad problem of the
political class intellectual class just
not really understanding what's
happening and what that is doing is
creating this massive massive
demand for for new ideas and this
enormous space is opening up and this
enormous demand is opening up from the
public not just here in the UK but
across the world for new ideas different
ways of thinking different ways of
managing the economy and it creates this
massive massive opportunity to do
something new to do something different
and I think that is one of the reasons
why like amazing things can happen like
me and Jack sitting here in my kitchen
can have political show that is
basically the biggest political show in
the entire country, you know, because
there is this massive massive demand for
new ideas in in politics. Um, and it
means that the opportunities are really
really huge and I'm often reminded I'm
trying to get more medieval history into
these videos. This reminds me of you're
going to like this one, the collapse of
the Roman Empire. So the Roman Empire
obviously this massive empire in uh
early medieval Europe and um there was
another massive empire in Asia at the
time the Persian Empire and they fought
each other loads and loads and loads and
loads and loads until they exhausted
each other and then what you saw was
this massive expansion of in the north
German tribes who were considered like
very very weak not powerful divided and
in the south Arabian Muslim tribes who
were considered like very weak and not
powerful. suddenly expanded and took
over basically the whole of Europe, the
whole of North Africa, the whole of the
Middle East, like totally conquered this
enormous space from these massive
massive empires. And that was basically
what happened. When the big existing
powers fail, it creates this enormous
vacuum for new ideas to come in and take
the space. And I think that is basically
where we are now. There was a book
written by was it Francis Fukuyama end
of history in uh I think the '9s where
he spoke about once communism collapsed
that basically we were at the end of
history and we had figured out what what
the best way to run the world was and it
was capitalism and it was this new kind
of modern economic management and that's
it. We're done now. We figured it out.
Nothing ever has to change. And now we
are at the kind of the end of the end of
history where suddenly we have realized
that the ideas of the western
intellectual class have failed and there
is this massive massive massive demand
from your ordinary people on the street
here in London here in the UK across the
world for something something new
something different and it is this
massive massive massive opportunity to
establish really what will be the
economic ideas on which the future of
this country the future of the
will be run and um that is there to win
that is that that is there to win
basically and um that is why you know
often even though it's it can be
depressing to look at the falling living
stands and I think I think things will
get worse I get kind of excited really
here doing this channel because I know
that the world is going to change the
new economic ideas are going to be built
and we have an opportunity here to build
a new economy that is based on
relatively simple ideas such as it is
important To prevent wealth and power
from being monopolized by a tiny elite,
we need to protect the wealth and the
power of ordinary people. We need to pro
protect wealth holdings of regular
families of government. And what I think
is really really interesting is you say
this here and now, this sounds like a
really really new idea. But if you go
and look upon like the sort of founding
principles of the United States of
America, one of the big principles there
was we need to make sure we have
division and separation of powers to
prevent power from being concentrated to
prevent power from being accumulated.
And this was a big idea that existed in
the early United States because people
had come from a Europe which was being
destroyed by massive inequality. So it's
been done before. We can do it again.
The opportunity is absolutely massive.
All we need to do is convince somehow
the western intellectual class just to
understand the reason living standards
are falling is growing inequality. If
you do not stop inequality from
increasing, living standards will
continue to fall. That simple
understanding can stop living standards
from falling and can save the world. But
unfortunately, we are we're not quite
there yet at the moment. We're at an
interesting space here where on this
channel we we've we've really I think
we've done a really great job of
educating the public and I'm really
proud of what we've done. But we have
repeatedly failed to win over basically
these intellectual elites. And what that
has meant really is that the
intellectual elites are collapsing in
popularity and it is leading to this
massive surge in popularity of the far
right. And I think that is really on
this channel. We've had the massive
success sort of building a political
movement. But I think where we have
failed is in really establishing this
intellectual movement which is getting
people to understand this this just
simple economic idea that if you allow
wealth inequality to grow very quickly,
living standards will fall. And I'm
constantly reminded when I do this
channel of my time at at Oxford. So, so
people who don't know, like I I actually
quit violinists in 2014, and I tried
loads of different things before I
started this channel in 2020, including
a two-year masters at Oxford University.
And I turned up at Oxford, like perhaps
quite naively, um, having been a very
successful trader trading interest
rates, thinking I could talk to the
professor at Oxford, saying, "Look, you
know, you've got a very bad track record
of of understanding interest rates. You
know, we can talk about why. Um, I've
made loads of money doing this. um you
can make loads of money doing this. I
can show you the data. I can explain it
to you. Um and basically these guys had
had totally no interest. And that
reminds me of of of where we are now
basically which is you have this really
interesting situation here in this
country of a Labor party that is
desperately in need of money,
desperately unpopular, desperately in
need of more social media reach. and we
turn up with a really really popular
money-raising idea with loads of social
media reach and we say do do you want to
do it and um they they for some reason
have um have no interest. Um and it
really reminds me of of this um this
situation this um this stubborn
unwillingness of the intellectual class
to basically accept or or even really
countenance the idea that they might be
wrong on the big ideas about the
economy. So the message is is clear. I
think the problem is actually shockingly
simple and it goes way way beyond just
Labor or just Donald Trump or just the
Conservative party or the Democrats or
wherever the party parties are where you
are.
There is a relatively simple problem of
understanding in our western
intellectual classes about the economy.
Um they're very naive about the wealth
distribution, about wealth in general.
they tend not to look at it. They tend
not to think about it and as a result
they have allowed and are allowing the
wealth distribution to become very
unequal. Um if we don't do anything
about that, living standards will fall
further and further and further and
further. That will create and is
creating massive demand for new
politics, new politicians. And until and
unless the western intellectual class is
willing to adapt and willing to change
or the political left is able to to
build something powerful and popular,
this will inevitably go the way of the
far right. Um and as living stand has
fallen fall and fall I suspect it will
end up in a situation of in the end very
extreme poverty and and relatively
extreme fascism. Okay. So on that uh
very optimistic message what do you do?
So last week I or is it two weeks ago
now? Two weeks ago I split my my message
into two messages. Um one was to people
who don't want reform to win and one was
to people who do want reform to win. Uh
so today I'm going to again split my
message into two which is one message to
the public and one message to people who
are in or might be able to get into this
kind of uh intellectual elite. So people
who can get university degrees and get
fancy jobs in in universities or or
government or political parties or the
media. All right. So to the public what
I want to say is you need to understand
this problem. Um, I know if you haven't
gone to an elite university, if you
haven't studied economics, you you might
be used to being told this is a problem
for experts. This is a problem for
intellectuals. This is not a problem for
you. If this is not fixed, your living
standards will collapse and the
intellectuals are not going to fix it
for you. Don't be ashamed into silence.
Understand it. The public is desperate
for a new vision for the future. And in
the absence of leadership from the
political elite and the intellectual
elite, you have a massive opportunity to
fill that gap. I've spoken before on
this channel about the importance of of
citizen journalists, ordinary people,
conversations between ordinary people.
The economy is going to change
massively. The emperor has got no
clothes. Everybody knows the existing
political class, the existing
intellectual class has failed. But the
new future is yet to be built. The
future is there to be built and to be
fought for. You need to build it.
Understand the simple problem. The
reason that living standards are falling
is because of growing inequality of
wealth. If nothing is done about growing
inequality of wealth, living standards
will fall further. The only way to fix
that is to fix an unfair tax system.
Understand that yourself and be ready to
push for that. For a long time, the
existing elites have failed. The space
is there to be won. Win it. Okay. And
now to the existing intellectual class,
people who might have fancy jobs, fancy
names, come from fancier places than me.
Listen, I know we maybe don't come from
the same background. And I know when you
see somebody like me who maybe didn't
come through the right channels in the
way you see it or or doesn't speak the
right way or maybe you feel speaks
disrespectfully and maybe you feel
criticizes your group and and your
group's understanding. Um, you can get
mad. I understand that and I know you
might have invested a lot of your your
self-worth and your belief in the
understanding that your class is good
and your class has good understanding.
If you are not willing to be flexible
and change your ideas about the economy
and about the way to run this country, I
guarantee you living standards will
continue to collapse and you will be
displaced by the far right. I guarantee
you that will happen. I'm betting on it
every year and I will be right. You must
be willing to bend or you will be
broken. Not by me but by the far right.
You will be displaced. That is what will
happen if you are not willing to be
open-minded about the causes of falling
living standards. Okay? I know when you
see me and when you hear me you think
this is some crazy workingclass leftwing
guy. You think I'm like Lenin or Trosky
or something? I've got the
qualifications. Okay? I've been to the
best universities in the world. I was
one of the best traders in the world,
one of the biggest banks in the world.
I've been predicting this correctly from
the very beginning. Go and look at those
predictions. Go and watch my video from
the beginning. Read my article in the
Guardian June 2020. I've been predicting
this right from the start. I've been
betting on this right since 2011. I have
a very, very, very good track record
here. You guys are comfortable. You get
paid well. You have a good situation in
today's society. If you are not willing
to countenance the fact that inequality
could be driving falling living
standards, living standards will
continue to collapse and you will be
displaced. Open your mind, open your
eyes or you will lose your comfortable
positions. Okay. So to conclude um what
we have right now is not a Labor Party
problem. It is a much much bigger
problem than the Labor Party. It's
basically happening to every single
political party in the Western world.
So, it is obviously much much bigger
than the Labor Party. I'm not saying
that to defend the Labor Party. I'm not
saying that to protect the Labor Party.
Um, I think the Labor Party has done a
bad job, but I am not at all
disappointed with the Labor Party
because I knew exactly that this is what
they would do. It's exactly what I
predicted that they would do is what I
bet they would do. Um, but it's
important that you understand accurately
what is happening. Otherwise, you will
make the same mistake that the Labour
Party is making. The Labour Party's
basic mistake is an incorrect diagnosis
of the cause of the problem. They think
that the problem is,
I don't know, a lack of productivity,
incompetence from the conservatives.
They think they can sensible their way
out of it and they can't. That is
because they don't understand what is
really happening. If you don't
understand what is happening, you will
also make bad diagnosis. A classic
example of that was two years ago,
everybody thought the Conservatives were
the problem. They thought if we kick the
Conservatives out, things would get
better. They did they did kick the
Conservatives out things won't get
better. The same thing is happening now.
Everybody thinks Labor are the problem.
They think if they kick Labor out and
get reform in, things will get better.
And again, it will not work. You need to
understand correctly the cause of the
problem. It is growing wealth inequality
and you need to drive that into the
political narrative. So that is it.
Basically what I want you to do is to
understand build that understanding as
much as you can. Build that
understanding every single day with your
friends with your communities. Simple.
Nice and simple. The reason living
standards are falling is because of
growing inequality. If you don't stop
growing inequality, living standards
will continue to fall. Listen, Labor
will get more and more and more and more
unpopular until and unless they accept
that. And if they lose and reform come
in, I guarantee you reform will fail and
become more and more and more unpopular
until and unless they accept that the
space will open up more and more and
more for this idea to come. So that's
it. Build that understanding in your
communities, use our videos, but also if
you can throw yourself into it. We need
to get ourselves into those intellectual
classes. If you or your kids or your
friends are able to get jobs as
academics, as economists, as in the
media, in government, in civil service,
go and get those jobs and drive these
ideas into the narrative. Until people
accept and understand that the cause of
the problem is inequality, things are
going to get worse and worse. But
ultimately, understanding itself is not
going to be enough. Um, we do need to
get these ideas into policy. And um
ultimately that's going to mean both in
this country or wherever you are that we
do need to somehow break into
government. And in this country that
means either influencing the Labor Party
or replacing them somehow. And uh that
is what we're going to discuss in next
week's video um which is going to be one
of the last in the series. The big
question, can Labor be saved? Thank you
very much. Tax Wealth Network. Thank
you.